<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Act III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:drama z3998:fiction">
		<section id="act-3" epub:type="chapter z3998:scene">
			<h2>
				<span epub:type="se:label">Act</span>
				<span epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">III</span>
			</h2>
			<p><b>Setting</b>: A high stretch of railroad track thru a luxurious Florida forest. It is near sundown.</p>
			<p><b>Action</b>: When the curtain rises there is no one on the stage, but there is a tremendous noise and hubbub off stage right. There are yells of derision and shouts of anger. Part of the mob is trying to keep <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b> in town, and part is driving him off. After a full minute of this, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b> enters with his guitar hanging around his neck and his coat over his shoulder. The sun is dropping low and red thru the forest. He is looking back angrily and shouting at the mob. A missile is thrown after him. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b> drops his coat and guitar and grabs up a piece of brick, and makes threatening gestures of throwing it.</p>
			<table>
				<tbody>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Running back the way he came and hurling the brick with all his might.</i> I‚Äôll kill some o‚Äô you old box-ankled niggers. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Grabs up another piece of brick.</i> I‚Äôm out o‚Äô your old town. Now just let some of you old half-pint Baptists let yo‚Äô wooden God and Cornstalk Jesus fool you into hittin‚Äô me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Threatens to throw again. There are some frightened screams and the mob is heard running back.</i> I‚Äôm glad I‚Äôm out o‚Äô yo‚Äô ole town anyhow. I ain‚Äôt never comin‚Äô back no mo‚Äô, neither. You ole ugly-rump niggers done ruint de town anyhow.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">There is complete silence off stage. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b> walks a few steps with his coat and guitar, then sits down on the railroad embankment facing the audience. He pulls off one shoe and pours the sand out. He holds the shoe in his hand a moment and looks wistfully back down the railroad track.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Lawd, folks sho is deceitful. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He puts on the shoe and looks back down the track again.</i> I never woulda thought people woulda acted like that. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laces up the shoe.</i> Specially Dave Carter, much as me and him done progue‚Äôd ‚Äôround together goin‚Äô in swimmin‚Äô an‚Äô playin‚Äô ball an‚Äô serenadin‚Äô de girls an‚Äô de white folks. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He sits there gloomily silent for awhile, then looks behind him and picks up his guitar and begins to pick a tune. The music is very sad, but he trails off into, ‚ÄúYou May Leave An‚Äô Go to Halimuhfacks, but My Slow Drag Will Bring You Back.‚Äù When he finishes he looks at the sun and picks up his coat.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Reckon I better git on down de road and git some where. Lawd knows where. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stops suddenly in his tracks and turns back toward the village. Takes a step or two.</i> All dat mess and stink for nothin‚Äô. Dave know good an‚Äô well I didn‚Äôt meant to hurt him much. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He takes off his cap and scratches his head thoroughly. Then turns again and starts on down the road left. Enter <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b>, left, walking fast and panting, her head down. They meet.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Oh, hello, Jim. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">A little surprised and startled.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Not expecting her.</i> Hello, Daisy. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Embarrassed silence.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>I was just coming over town to see how you come out.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>You don‚Äôt have to go way over there to find dat out‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ you and Dave done got me run outa town for nothin‚Äô.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Putting her hand on his arm.</i> Dey didn‚Äôt run you outa town, did dey?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Shaking her hand off.</i> Whut you reckon I‚Äôm countin‚Äô <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝRailroad‚Äôs ties for‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ just to find out how many ties between here and Orlando?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Hand on his arm again.</i> Dey cain‚Äôt run you off like dat!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Take yo‚Äô hands off me, Daisy! How come they cain‚Äôt run me off wid you and Dave an‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ everybody ‚Äôginst me?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>I ain‚Äôt opened my mouf ‚Äôgainst you, Jim. I ain‚Äôt said one word‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ I wasn‚Äôt even at de old trial. My madame wouldn‚Äôt let me git off. I wuz just comin‚Äô to see ‚Äôbout you now.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Aw, go ‚Äôhead on. You figgered I was gone too long to talk about. You was haulin‚Äô it over to town to see Dave‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ dat‚Äôs whut you was doin‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ after gittin‚Äô me all messed up.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Making as if to cry.</i> I wasn‚Äôt studyin‚Äô ‚Äôbout no Dave.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Hopefully.</i> Aw, don‚Äôt tell me. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sings.</i> Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, show me a woman that a man can trust. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b> is crying now.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>What you crying for? You know you love Dave. I‚Äôm yo‚Äô monkey-man. He always could do more wid you that I could.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Naw, you ain‚Äôt no monkey-man neither. I don‚Äôt want you to leave town. I didn‚Äôt want y‚Äôall to be fightin‚Äô over me, nohow.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Aw, rock on down de road wid dat stuff. A two-timin‚Äô cloaker like you don‚Äôt keer whut come off. Me and Dave been good friends ever since we was born till you had to go flouncing yourself around.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>What did I do? All I did was to come over town to see you and git a mouf-ful of gum. Next thing I know y‚Äôall is fighting and carrying on.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stands silent for a while.</i> Did you come over there Sat‚Äô-day night to see me sho nuff, sugar babe?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Everybody could see dat but you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Just like I told you, Daisy, before you ever left from round here and went up North. I could kiss you every day‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ just as regular as pig-tracks.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>And I tole you I could stand it too‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust as regular as you could.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Catching her by the arm and pulling her down with him onto the rail.</i> Set down, here, Daisy. Less talk some chat. You want me sho nuff? Hones‚Äô to God?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coyly.</i> ‚ÄôMember whut I told you out on de lake last summer?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Sho nuff, Daisy? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b> nods smilingly.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sadly.</i> But I got to go ‚Äôway. Whut we gointer do ‚Äôbout dat?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Where you goin‚Äô, Jim?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looking sadly down the track.</i> God knows.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Off stage from the same direction from which <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b> entered comes the sound of whistling and tramping of feet on the ties.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Brightening.</i> Dat‚Äôs Dave! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Frowning.</i> Wonder whut he doin‚Äô walkin‚Äô dis track? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looks accusingly at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b>.</i> I bet he‚Äôs goin‚Äô to yo‚Äô workplace.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Whut for?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>He ain‚Äôt goin‚Äô to see de madame‚ÅÝ‚Äîmust be goin‚Äô to see you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He starts to rise petulantly as <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</b> comes upon the scene. Daisy rises also.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looks accusingly from one to the other.</i> Whut y‚Äôall jumpin‚Äô up for? I‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Whut you gut to do wid us business? Tain‚Äôt none of yo‚Äô business if we stand up, set down or fly like a skeeter hawk.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Who said I keered? Dis railroad belongs to de man‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI kin walk it good as you, cain‚Äôt I?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Laughing exultantly.</i> Oh, yeah, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝDo-Dirty! You figgered you had done run me on off so you could git Daisy all by yo‚Äôself. You was headin‚Äô right for her workplace.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>I wasn‚Äôt no such a thing.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>You was. Didn‚Äôt I hear you coming down de track all whistling and everything?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Youse a big ole Georgy-something-ain‚Äôt-so! I done got my belly full of Daisy Sat‚Äôday night. She can‚Äôt snore in my ear no more.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Indignantly.</i> Whut you come here low-ratin‚Äô me for, Dave Carter? I ain‚Äôt done nothin‚Äô to you but treat you white. Who come rubbed yo‚Äô ole head for you yestiddy if it wasn‚Äôt me?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Yeah, you rubbed my head all right, and I lakted dat. But everybody say you done toted a pan to Joe Clark‚Äôs barn for Jim before I seen you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Think I was going to let Jim lay there ‚Äôthout nothing fitten for a dog to eat?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>That‚Äôs all right, Daisy. If you want to pay Jim for knockin‚Äô me in de head, all right. But I‚Äôm a man in a class‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ in a class to myself and nobody knows my name.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Snatching Daisy around to face him.</i> Was you over to Dave‚Äôs house yestiddy rubbing his ole head and cloaking wid him to run me outa town‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ and me looked up in dat barn wid de cows and mules?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sobbing.</i> All both of y‚Äôall hollerin‚Äô at me an‚Äô fussin‚Äô me just cause I tries to be nice‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ and neither one of y‚Äôall don‚Äôt keer nothin‚Äô bout me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Both Boys</b> glare at each other over <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy‚Äôs</b> head and both try to hug her at the same time. She violently wrenches herself away from both and makes as if to move on.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Leave me go! Take yo‚Äô rusty pams offen me. I‚Äôm going on back to my workplace. I just got off to see bout y‚Äôall and look how y‚Äôall treat me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Wait a minute, Daisy. I love you like God loves Gabriel‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ and dat‚Äôs His best angel.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Daisy, I love you harder than de thunder can bump a sump‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ if I don‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ God‚Äôs a gopher.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Brightening.</i> Dat‚Äôs de first time you ever said so.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr class="together">
						<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave¬Ý&amp; Jim</td>
						<td>Who?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Whut you hollering ‚ÄúWho‚Äù for? Yo‚Äô fat don‚Äôt fit no limb.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Speak when you spoken to‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ come when you called, next fall you‚Äôll be my coon houn‚Äô dog.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Table dat discussion. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Turning to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b>.</i> You ain‚Äôt never give me no chance to talk wid you right.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>You made me feel like you was trying to put de Ned book on me all de time. Do you love me sho nuff, Daisy?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Blooming again into coquetry.</i> Aw, y‚Äôall better stop dat. You know you don‚Äôt mean it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Who don‚Äôt mean it? Lemme tell you something, mama, if you was mine I wouldn‚Äôt have you counting no ties wid yo‚Äô pretty lil toes. Know whut I‚Äôd do?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Coyly.</i> Naw, whut would you do?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>I‚Äôd buy you a whole passenger train‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ and hire some mens to run it for you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Happily.</i> Oo‚Äëooh, Dave.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Dave.</i>
							</p>
							<blockquote epub:type="z3998:song">
								<p>
									<span>De wind may blow, de doorway slam</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Dat shut you shootin‚Äô ain‚Äôt worth a dam.</span>
								</p>
							</blockquote>
							<p><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Daisy.</i> I‚Äôd buy you a great big ole ship‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ and then, baby, I‚Äôd buy you a ocean to sail yo‚Äô ship on.</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Happily.</i> Oo‚Äëooh, Jim.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>
							<p>
								<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Jim.</i>
							</p>
							<blockquote epub:type="z3998:song">
								<p>
									<span>A long tain, a short caboose</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Dat lie whut you shootin‚Äô, ain‚Äôt no use.</span>
								</p>
							</blockquote>
							<p><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Daisy.</i> Miss Daisy, know what I‚Äôd do for you?</p>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Naw, whut?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>I‚Äôd come down de river riding a mud cat and loading a minnow.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Lawd, Dave, you sho is propaganda.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Peevishly.</i> Naw he ain‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ he‚Äôs just lying‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ he‚Äôs a noble liar. Know whut I‚Äôd do if you was mine?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Naw, Jim.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>I‚Äôd make a panther wash yl‚Äô dishes and a ‚Äôgater chop yo‚Äô wood for you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Daisy, how come you let Jim lie lak dat? He‚Äôs as big as a liar as he is a man. But sho nuff now, laying all sides to jokes, Jim there don‚Äôt even know how to answer you. If you don‚Äôt b‚Äôlieve it‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ ast him something.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Jim.</i> You like me much, Jim?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enthusiastically.</i> Yeah, Daisy I sho do.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Triumphant.</i> See dat! I tole you he didn‚Äôt know how to answer nobody like you. If he was talking to some of them ol‚Äô funny looking gals over town he‚Äôd be answering ‚Äôem just right. But he got to learn how to answer you. Now you ast me something and see how I answer you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Do you like me, Dave?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Very properly in a falsetto voice.</i> Yes ma‚Äôam! Dat‚Äôs de way to answer swell folks like you. Furthermore, less we prove which one of us love you do best right now. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b>.</i> Jim, how much time would you do on de chain-gang for dis ‚Äôoman?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Twenty years and like it.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>See dat, Daisy? Dat nigger ain‚Äôt willin‚Äô to do no time for you. I‚Äôd beg de judge to gimme life. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Both <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b> and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</b> laugh.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Y‚Äôall doin‚Äô all dis bookooin‚Äô out here on de railroad track but I bet y‚Äôall crazy ‚Äôbout Bootsie and Teets and a whole heap of other gals.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Cross my feet and hope to die! I‚Äôd ruther see all de other wimmen folks in de worl‚Äô dead than for you to have de toothache.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>If I was dead and any other woman come near my coffin de undertaker would have to do his job all over‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ ‚Äôcause I‚Äôd git right up and walk off. Furthermore, Miss Daisy, ma‚Äôam, also ma‚Äôam, which would you ruther be a lark a flying or a dove a settin‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ ma‚Äôam, also ma‚Äôam?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>‚ÄôCourse I‚Äôd ruther be a dove.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Miss Daisy, ma‚Äôam, also ma‚Äôam‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ if you marry dis nigger over my head, I‚Äôm going to git me a green hickory club and season it over yo‚Äô head.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Don‚Äôt you be skeered, baby‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ papa kin take keer a you. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Jim.</i> Countin‚Äô from de finger <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">suiting the action to the word</i> back to de thumb‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ start anything I got you some.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Aw, I don‚Äôt want no more fight wid you, Dave.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Who said anything about fighting? We just provin‚Äô who love Daisy de best. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b>.</i> Now, which one of us you think love you de best?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Deed I don‚Äôt know, Dave.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Baby, I‚Äôd walk de water for you‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ and tote a mountain on my head while I‚Äôm walkin‚Äô.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Know what I‚Äôd do, honey babe? If you was a thousand miles from home and you didn‚Äôt have no ready-made money and you had to walk all de way, walkin‚Äô till ye‚Äô feet start to rolling, just like a wheel, and I was riding way up in de sky, I‚Äôd step backwards offa dat aryplane just to walk home wid you.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Falling on <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim‚Äôs</b> neck.</i> Jim, when you talk to me like dat I just can‚Äôt stand it. Less us git married right now.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Now you talkin‚Äô like a blue-back speller. Less go!</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sadly.</i> You gointer leave me lak dis, Daisy?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sadly.</i> I likes you, too, Dave, I sho do. But I can‚Äôt marry both of y‚Äôall at de same time.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Aw, come on, Daisy‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ sun‚Äôs gettin‚Äô low. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He starts off pulling <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b>.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Whut‚Äôs I‚Äôm gointer do? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Walking after them.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Gwan back and dance‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ you make out you don‚Äôt need me to play none.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Almost tearfully.</i> Aw, Jim, shucks! Where y‚Äôall going?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b> comes to an abrupt halt and stops <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b>.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>That‚Äôs right, honey. Where is we goin‚Äô sho nuff?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sadly.</i> Deed I don‚Äôt know, baby. They just sentenced me to go‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ they didn‚Äôt say where and I don‚Äôt know.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>How we goin‚Äô nohow to go when we don‚Äôt know where we goin‚Äô?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b> looks at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</b> as if he expects some help but <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</b> stands sadly silent. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b> takes a few steps forward as if to go on. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b> makes a step or two, unwillingly, then looks behind her and stops. <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</b> looks as if he will follow them.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Jim! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He stops and turns.</i> Wait a minute! Whut we gointer do when we git there?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Where?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Where we goin‚Äô?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>I done tole you I don‚Äôt know where it is.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>But how we gointer git something to eat and a place to stay?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Play and dance‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ just like I been doin‚Äô.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>You can‚Äôt dance and Dave ain‚Äôt gointer be ther.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looks appealingly at <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</b>, then away quickly.</i> Well, I can‚Äôt help dat, can I?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Brightly.</i> I tell you whut, Jim! Less us don‚Äôt go nowhere. They sentenced you to leave Eatonville and youse more than a mile from de city limits already. Youse in Maitland now. Supposin‚Äô you come live on de white folks‚Äô place wid me after we git married. Eatonville ain‚Äôt got nothin‚Äô to do wid you livin‚Äô in Maitland.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Dat‚Äôa a good idea, Daisy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Jumping into his arms.</i> And listen, honey, you don‚Äôt have to be beholden to Dave nor nobody else. You can throw dat ole box away if you want to. I know ehre you can get a swell job.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sheepishly.</i> Doin‚Äô whut? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Looks lovingly at his guitar.</i></td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Almost dancing.</i> Yard man. All you have to do is wash windows, and sweep de sidewalk, and scrub off de steps and porch and hoe up de weeds and rake up de leaves and dig a few holes now and then with a spade‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ to plant some trees and things like that. It‚Äôs a good steady job.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">After a long deliberation.</i> You see, Daisy, de Mayor and corporation told me to go on off and I oughter go.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Well, I‚Äôm not going tippin‚Äô down no railroad track like a Maltese cat. I wasn‚Äôt brought up knockin‚Äô round from here to yonder.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Well, I wasn‚Äôt brought up wid no spade in my hand‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ and ain‚Äôt going to start it now.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>But sweetheart, we got to live, ain‚Äôt we? We got to git hold of money before we kin do anything. I don‚Äôt mean to stay in de white folks‚Äô kitchen all my days.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Yeah, all dat‚Äôs true, but you couldn‚Äôt buy a flea a waltzing jacket wid de money I‚Äôm going to make wid a hoe and spade.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Getting tearful.</i> You don‚Äôt want me. You don‚Äôt love me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Yes, I do, darling, I love you. Youse de one letting a spade come between us. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">He caresses her.</i> I loves you and you only. You don‚Äôt see me dragging a whole gang of farming tools into us business, do you?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Stiffly.</i> Well, I ain‚Äôt going to marry no man that ain‚Äôt going to work and take care of me.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>I don‚Äôt mind working if de job ain‚Äôt too heavy for me. I ain‚Äôt going to bother wid nothin‚Äô in my hands heavier than dis box‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ and I totes it round my neck ‚Äômost of de time.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b> makes a despairing gesture as <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b> takes a step or two away from her. She turns to <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</b> finally.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Well, I reckon you loves me the best anyhow. You wouldn‚Äôt talk to me like Jim did, would you, Dave?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Naw, I wouldn‚Äôt say what he said a-tall.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Cuddling up to him.</i> Whut would you say, honey?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>I‚Äôd say dat box was too heavy for me to fool wid. I wouldn‚Äôt tote nothing heavier than my hat and I feel like I‚Äôm ‚Äôbusing myself sometime totin‚Äô dat.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Outraged.</i> Don‚Äôt you mean to work none?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Wouldn‚Äôt hit a lick at a snake.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>I don‚Äôt blame you, Dave, <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">looks down at his feet</i> cause toting dem feet of yourn is enough to break down your constitution.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Airily.</i> That‚Äôs all right‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ dem foots done put plenty bread in our moufs.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Not by they selves though‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ wid de help of dat box, Jim. When you gits having fits on dat box, boy, my foots has hysterics. Daisy, you marry Jim cause I don‚Äôt want to come between y‚Äôall. He‚Äôs my buddy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Come to think of it, Dave, she was yourn first. You take and handle dat spade for her.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>You heard her say it is all I can do to lift up dese feets and put ‚Äôem down. Where I‚Äôm going to git any time to wrassle wid any hoes and shovels? You kin git round better‚Äôn me. You done won Daisy‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ I give in. I ain‚Äôt going to bite no fren‚Äô of mine in de back.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</td>
						<td>Both of you niggers can git yo‚Äô hat an‚Äô yo‚Äô heads and git on down de road. Neither one of y‚Äôall don‚Äôt have to have me. I got a good job and plenty men beggin for yo‚Äô chance.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>Dat‚Äôs right, Daisy, you go git you one them mens whut don‚Äôt mind smelling mules‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ and beating de white folks to de barn every morning. I don‚Äôt wanta be bothered wid nothin‚Äô but dis box.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>And I can‚Äôt strain wid nothin‚Äô but my feets.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Daisy</b> walks slowly away in the direction from which she came. Both watch her a little wistfully for a minute. The sun is setting.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Guess I better be gittin‚Äô on back‚ÅÝ‚Ää‚ÅÝ‚Ä¶ it‚Äôs most dark. Where you goin‚Äô Jim?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>I don‚Äôt know, Dave. Down de road, I reckon.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Whyncher come on back to town. ‚ÄôTain‚Äôt no use you proguein‚Äô up and down de railroad track when you got a home.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>They done lawed me way from it for hittin‚Äô you wid dat bone.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td>Dat ain‚Äôt nothin‚Äô. It was my head you hit. An‚Äô if I don‚Äôt keer whut dem old ugly-rump niggers got to do wid it?</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>They might not let me come in town.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</td>
						<td><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Seizing <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim‚Äôs</b> arm and facing him back toward the town.</i> They better! Look here, Jim, if they try to keep you out dat town we‚Äôll go out to dat swamp and git us a mule bone a piece and come into town and boil dat stew down to a low gravy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</td>
						<td>You mean dat, Dave? <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</b> nods his head eagerly.</i> Us wasn‚Äôt mad wid one ‚Äônother nohow. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Beligerently.</i> Come on, less go back to town. Dem mallet-heads better leave me be, too. <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Picks up a heavy stick.</i> I wish Lum would come tellin‚Äô me ‚Äôbout de law when I got all dis law in my hands. And de rest o‚Äô dem gator-faced jigs, if they ain‚Äôt got a whole sto‚Äô o‚Äô mule bones and a good determination, they better not bring no mess up. Come on, boy.</td>
					</tr>
					<tr>
						<td/>
						<td>
							<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They start back together toward town, <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jim</b> picking a dance tune on his guitar, and <b epub:type="z3998:persona">Dave</b> cutting steps on the ties beside him, singing, prancing and happily, they exit, right, as the curtain falls.</i>
						</td>
					</tr>
				</tbody>
			</table>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
