<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Characters</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="frontmatter z3998:fiction z3998:drama">
		<section id="dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Characters</h2>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<p>Jim Weston: Guitarist, Methodist, slightly arrogant, agressive, somewhat self-important, ready with his tongue.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Dave Carter: Dancer, Baptist, soft, happy-go-lucky character, slightly dumb and unable to talk rapidly and wittily.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Daisy Taylor: Methodist, domestic servant, plump, dark and sexy, self-conscious of clothes and appeal, fickle.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Joe Clark: The Mayor, storekeeper and postmaster, arrogant, ignorant and powerful in a self-assertive way, large, fat man, Methodist.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Elder Simms: Methodist minister, newcomer in town, ambitious, small and fly, but not very intelligent.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Elder Childers: Big, loose-jointed, slow spoken but not dumb. Long resident in the town, calm and sure of himself.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Katie Carter: Dave’s aunt, little old wizened dried-up lady.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Mrs. Hattie Clark: The Mayor’s wife, fat and flabby mulatto high-pitched voice.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The Mrs. Rev. Simms: Large and agressive.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>The Mrs. Rev. Childers: Just a wife who thinks of details.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Lum Boger: Young town marshall about twenty, tall, gangly, with big flat feet, liked to show off in public.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Teet Miller: Village vamp who is jealous of Daisy.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Lige Mosely: A village wag.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Walter Thomas: Another village wag.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Ada Lewis: A promiscuous lover.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Della Lewis: Baptist, poor housekeeper, mother of Ada.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Bootsie Pitts: A local vamp.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Mrs. Dilcie Anderson: Village housewife, Methodist.</p>
				</li>
				<li>
					<p>Willie Nixon: Methodist, short runt.</p>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
